# EPS_109_Fall_2020_Final_Project
GitHub repo of data and code I used to complete my EPS 109 final project for UC Berkeley during the Fall of 2020. The project attempts to locate a lost high altitude balloon payload in the Mojave desert via a combination of Monte Carlo (MC) flight predictions to identify a likely landing location as well as analyzing Landsat 8 panchromatic RGB images over time.


READ ME:
1. Due to the intrinsically large file sizes generated by the Landsat 8 satellite used to generate the final products of this project, I have taken a few procedures to decrease the notebook size.
1.1 In order to save computational time, I locally saved (in the same directory as this notebook) manipulated and/or final images as I progressed through the code. This means that I only loaded in the original Landsat 8 data in two cells in the entire notebook marked with orange text: and .

1.2 For the purposes of being able to upload this notebook with a reasonable size limit, I have NOT included the original Landsat 8 data I used to generate the final images. The cells that I mentioned in 1.1 require the original Landsat 8 data in order to run, so I have commented those cells out.

1.3 Because of what I just mentioned in 1.1 and 1.2, I have only included the locally saved small image files in the directory this notebook is in. If for some reason, the locally saved files that are supposed to be used with this notebook aren't working or didn't download properly, you can download them directly from the following Google Drive ZIP. Simply download the ZIP, unarchive it and place all of the individual files in the same directory that this notebook is currently running in (important to note that you should not change any of the names in the actual unarchived folder, as this notebook is written to use those folder and file names). Link to Google Drive ZIP: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vlynXHX7dB--Qym4JkMRE4qZ_dbGLqqB/view?usp=sharing

1.4 However, I have uploaded all of the original Landsat 8 data I used to Google Drive as a ZIP that you can use to run the entire notebook from start to stop with original data and change the bands and colors around if you want. To get the original data, simply click the following link, download the ZIP file to the directory this folder is currently running in and double click the ZIP file to unarchive it (important to note that you should not change any of the names in the actual unarchived folder, as this notebook is written to use those folder and file names). Link to Google Drive ZIP: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1EeUFVoKW_QHD4awEYyXRLCEK0WzUKn0_?usp=sharing

2. Also due to the intrinsically large file sizes, my computer (2016 Macbook Air with 8 GB of RAM) was taking a very long time to load, manipulate, and show the images when working with the original Landsat 8 data (anywhere between 20 minutes and 1.5 hours depending on the file I was using).
2.1 Because of this I installed numba's JIT (Just-In-Time compilation) (https://numba.pydata.org/) to decrease computational time by enabling parallel processing and other built-in functions of JIT (https://numba.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user/overview.html). Using it actually ran my Landsat data manipulation funcitons on average ~47% faster than without it.

2.2 While it is not necessary to use numba's JIT to run this notebook (especially if you have a better computer than mine), you must comment out the statements seen before each function, as well as commenting out the " numba jit" statement in the "Necessary Packages" cell below these instructions.

2.3 If you DO wish to use numba's JIT simply follow the installation instructions linked here: https://numba.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user/5minguide.html.
It is as simple as running one of the following in your terminal before running this notebook:

conda install numba (if you're using Anaconda)
pip install numba (if you want to use wheels)
3. In order to run the Monte Carlo (MC) balloon flight path simulations, you must first install the ASTRA High Altitude Balloon Flight Planner.
https://arc.aiaa.org/doi/10.2514/1.J052900
https://bit.ly/34vKNPu
http://astra-planner.soton.ac.uk/
3.1 In order to install this package, simply follow the instructions listed:

In your terminal, navigate to the directory in which this notebook is in.
Next, clone the Git repo from the ASTRA Github with the follow command:
git clone https://github.com/sobester/astra_simulator.git
3.2 Once this repo has been cloned to same directory this notebook is in, you can change the parameters in the cell (marked with ) to whatever balloon parameters you want. In this case, I have chosen the parameters that most accurately represent the balloon flight and payload lost on August 13, 2020.

3.3 If you do not wish to use the balloon flight simulator, simply comment out everything in the "Necessary packages for the ASTRA HAB predictor", as well as the cells towards the bottom of the notebook (marked with ).
